---
layout: post
title: Snakes on a Compiler
permalink: /2009/04/66/index.html
post_id: 66
categories: 
- .net
- ASP.NET
- Development
- General
- Python
- python
---

p. I went to the Day of <a class="zem_slink" title=".NET Framework" 
rel="homepage" href="http://www.microsoft.com/net/">.NET</a>, an all-day 
"geekfest", a sea of polos and khakis; and there, I made the final decision of 
what language I would learn next: <a class="zem_slink" title="Python 
(programming language)" rel="homepage" 
href="http://www.python.org/">Python</a>. Well, specifically, <a 
class="zem_slink" title="IronPython" rel="homepage" 
href="http://www.codeplex.com/IronPython">IronPython</a>. I guess a normal 
Python isn't scary enough, so we'll make it out of metal. (<a 
href="http://www.darrellhawley.com/" target="_blank">Presenter's website</a>; 
<a href="http://bit.ly/zL7Ff" target="_blank">presenter's slides</a>; <a 
href="http://twitter.com/darrellhawley" target="_blank">presenter's twitter</a>)


The really, really cool thing about IronPython is the ease in which I can pull 
in other <a class="zem_slink" title="Common Language Runtime" rel="wikipedia" 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Language_Runtime">CLR</a> languages; 
namely, C#. This will supposedly get better when <a class="zem_slink" 
title="Microsoft Visual Studio" rel="homepage" 
href="http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/">Visual Studio</a> 2010 comes out and 
the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Language_Runtime" 
target="_blank">DLR</a> is revamped and IronPython support grows. What this 
will allow me to do is build all of my base classes, and my data layer, which 
I'm more comfortable with, and use Python for all the fun stuff- services, and 
display. I've been considering writing my next game in Python anyway, 
influenced by <a class="zem_slink" title="Eve Online" rel="wikipedia" 
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eve_Online">Eve Online</a>'s incredible 
sucess using the language, so this fits in perfectly with my prior knowledge.


I'm pretty excited. I've never heard a negative thing about Python; everyone 
I've ever heard who uses it loves it.

