---
layout: post
title: Crafty.js Presentation at the San Francisco GamesJS Meetup
permalink: /2011/08/craftyjs-presentation-at-the-first-san-fransisco-gamesjs-meetup/index.html
post_id: 373
categories: 
- Development
- game development
- Game Development
- html 5
- HTML5
- Javascript
---

A couple weeks ago, I did a presentation for a brand-new meetup group called 
[GamesJS](http://gamesjs.com), an HTML5 game development meetup in San 
Francisco.  We did a few lightning talks, followed around by general 
hanging-about-and-finishing-the-remaining-food. Another talk was on 
[Spaceport](http://sibblingz.com/technology.html) a game engine built for 
performance that uses javascript and vector-based graphics in an 
Actionscript-like API (allowing easy ports from existing AS3 code). The game 
logic is written in javascript, while the graphics processing is handled by 
whatever's fastest and available - native code for iOS, WebGL for Chrome, etc. 
His slides are available on the [GamesJS 
site](http://gamesjs.com/meetups/javascript-and-html5-games-kickoff-meeting). 
The third and final talk was on [Google 
PlayN](http://code.google.com/p/playn/), Google's GWT-based engine that is 
built to allow you to write your game in Java, and export to various platforms, 
such as a native Android app, html5, and even flash, with as little change as 
possible.   Her slides were also [available online](http://goo.gl/qGZMG).  

[My slides](http://gamesjs.com/presentations/craftyjs/slides.html)  are a short 
dozen that walk you through the creation of a _really_ simple Crafty game by 
example. It shows how to set up the canvas, instantiate objects, create and 
inherit classes ("modules"), animation, and collision. All of my sourcecode is 
[up on jsFiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/ajacksified/NJ3Ub/).
